README.md, before:

# Hydrofoil (Crystal)
> Opinionated, Alpine-based development container for Crystal

## Features

* Use Alpine (musl) as base to ease generation of static binaries
* Use Crystal's official binary packages
* Promote non-root container usage and proper file/directory ownership
* Provide simple tools to certain dev related tasks (Eg. watch changes, process monitoring, etc)
* Be continuously updated using GitHub Actions

This project does **not** aim to:

* Be compatible with [Visual Studio Code devcontainer](devcontainer), [GitHub Codespaces](codespaces) or similar
* Pack or include web-specific tools (Eg. Node, Deno, Yarn, etc)
* Be _everything but the kitchen sink_

## Overview

This project aims to be used **only for development**, replacing the local
installation of tools for something consistent across OS and configurations.

It includes the minimum needed packages to have an usable Crystal compiler
environment, leaving to you the option to add additional ones by using the
offered image as base.

Additionally, it includes the following packages:

* [fixuid](https://github.com/boxboat/fixuid): tweaks container UID/GID to avoid ownership issues on mounted volumes
* [Hivemind](https://github.com/DarthSim/hivemind): Procfile-based simple process manager
* [watchexec](https://github.com/watchexec/watchexec): simple tool that watches a path and runs a command whenever it detects modifications

## Requirements

The container images can be used directly with [Docker](docker), but is
recommended to use in combination with [docker-compose](docker-compose).

See below for usage examples.

## Usage

To take full advantage of this container image, you need to adjust your
[`docker-compose.yml`](docker-compose-yml) primary service to use it:

```yaml
services:
  app:
    image: ghcr.io/luislavena/hydrofoil-crystal:1.2.1
    command: hivemind Procfile.dev
    working_dir: /app

    # Set these env variables using `export FIXUID=$(id -u) FIXGID=$(id -g)`
    user: ${FIXUID:-1000}:${FIXGID:-1000}

    volumes:
      - .:/app:cached
```

Let's break down each element:

```yaml
command: hivemind Procfile.dev
```

This indicates that the container will execute Hivemind process manager and
start the processes indicated in `Procfile.dev` file.

```yaml
working_dir: /app
```

It adjusts the container working directory to be anything other than the
default. This `/app` location will be used to _mount_ our application code.

```yaml
user: ${FIXUID:-1000}:${FIXGID:-1000}
```

This sets the user that will be used within the container to something other
than `root`. A sudoers `user` has been setup and this instructions uses
Docker's compose [variable substitution](variable-substitution) to read your
current user's UID/GID values and map correctly to the container user.

This technique helps eliminate root/non-root permission issues when working
with mounted directories.

Is recommended you `export` these two variables (perhaps in your
bash profile):

```bash
export FIXUID=$(id -u) FIXGID=$(id -g)
```

Finally, we have the mounted directories:

```yaml
volumes:
  .:/app:cached
```

This mounts your current directory as `/app` within the container. Combined
with `working_dir` makes it the working directory for all operations.

### Other examples

You can find more advanced usage examples of this container image inside
the [examples](examples) directory.

## Contribution Policy

This project is open to code contributions for bug fixes only. Features carry
a long-term maintenance burden so they will not be accepted at this time.
Please [submit an issue](new-issue) if you have a feature you'd like to
request or discuss.

[devcontainer]: https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/remote/containers
[codespaces]: https://github.com/features/codespaces
[new-issue]: https://github.com/luislavena/hydrofoil-crystal/issues/new
[docker]: https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/
[docker-compose]: https://docs.docker.com/compose/
[docker-compose-yml]: https://docs.docker.com/compose/compose-file/compose-file-v3/
[variable-substitution]: https://docs.docker.com/compose/compose-file/compose-file-v3/#variable-substitution

Commit message:

Replace Hivemind with Overmind
Move to a more powerful Procfile process monitoring that:

- Supports automatic restarts of processes when they die
- Supports process scaling (Eg. `web=2`) to run concurrent instances of
same process

These two options helps a lot when doing web development and the
processes suddenly die or when you need to test concurrency access to a
certain resource or some naive load testing :-)

To migrate from Hivemind only requires to adjust the command line from:
`hivemind Procfile.dev` to `overmind start -f Procfile.dev`

See advanced's `docker-compose.yml` example.

README.md, after:

# Hydrofoil (Crystal)
> Opinionated, Alpine-based development container for Crystal

## Features

* Use Alpine (musl) as base to ease generation of static binaries
* Use Crystal's official binary packages
* Promote non-root container usage and proper file/directory ownership
* Provide simple tools to certain dev related tasks (Eg. watch changes, process monitoring, etc)
* Be continuously updated using GitHub Actions

This project does **not** aim to:

* Be compatible with [Visual Studio Code devcontainer](devcontainer), [GitHub Codespaces](codespaces) or similar
* Pack or include web-specific tools (Eg. Node, Deno, Yarn, etc)
* Be _everything but the kitchen sink_

## Overview

This project aims to be used **only for development**, replacing the local
installation of tools for something consistent across OS and configurations.

It includes the minimum needed packages to have an usable Crystal compiler
environment, leaving to you the option to add additional ones by using the
offered image as base.

Additionally, it includes the following packages:

* [fixuid](https://github.com/boxboat/fixuid): tweaks container UID/GID to avoid ownership issues on mounted volumes
* [Overmind](https://github.com/DarthSim/overmind): Advanced Procfile-based process manager
* [watchexec](https://github.com/watchexec/watchexec): simple tool that watches a path and runs a command whenever it detects modifications

## Requirements

The container images can be used directly with [Docker](docker), but is
recommended to use in combination with [docker-compose](docker-compose).

See below for usage examples.

## Usage

To take full advantage of this container image, you need to adjust your
[`docker-compose.yml`](docker-compose-yml) primary service to use it:

```yaml
services:
  app:
    image: ghcr.io/luislavena/hydrofoil-crystal:1.2.1
    command: overmind start -f Procfile.dev
    working_dir: /app

    # Set these env variables using `export FIXUID=$(id -u) FIXGID=$(id -g)`
    user: ${FIXUID:-1000}:${FIXGID:-1000}

    volumes:
      - .:/app:cached
```

Let's break down each element:

```yaml
command: overmind start -f Procfile.dev
```

The container will execute Overmind process manager and start the processes
indicated in the `Procfile.dev` file.

```yaml
working_dir: /app
```

It adjusts the container working directory to be anything other than the
default. This `/app` location will be used to _mount_ our application code.

```yaml
user: ${FIXUID:-1000}:${FIXGID:-1000}
```

This sets the user that will be used within the container to something other
than `root`. A sudoers `user` has been setup and this instructions uses
Docker's compose [variable substitution](variable-substitution) to read your
current user's UID/GID values and map correctly to the container user.

This technique helps eliminate root/non-root permission issues when working
with mounted directories.

Is recommended you `export` these two variables (perhaps in your
bash profile):

```bash
export FIXUID=$(id -u) FIXGID=$(id -g)
```

Finally, we have the mounted directories:

```yaml
volumes:
  .:/app:cached
```

This mounts your current directory as `/app` within the container. Combined
with `working_dir` makes it the working directory for all operations.

### Other examples

You can find more advanced usage examples of this container image inside
the [examples](examples) directory.

## Contribution Policy

This project is open to code contributions for bug fixes only. Features carry
a long-term maintenance burden so they will not be accepted at this time.
Please [submit an issue](new-issue) if you have a feature you'd like to
request or discuss.

[devcontainer]: https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/remote/containers
[codespaces]: https://github.com/features/codespaces
[new-issue]: https://github.com/luislavena/hydrofoil-crystal/issues/new
[docker]: https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/
[docker-compose]: https://docs.docker.com/compose/
[docker-compose-yml]: https://docs.docker.com/compose/compose-file/compose-file-v3/
[variable-substitution]: https://docs.docker.com/compose/compose-file/compose-file-v3/#variable-substitution
